IT Service
	range of activities involving use of IT to support, manage and improve the operations of a business or organization.


ITIL
	Framework
	Information Technology Infrastructure Library
	ITSM (IT Service Management)

4 P's of Service Management
	1. People  		- Skills, training, Communication
	2. Processes	- Actions, Activities, Changes, Goals
	3. Products		- Tools, Monitor, Measure, Improve
	4. Partners		- Suppliers (Specialist)
	
Process
	A set of activities which are carried out in a given manner to achieve the desired objective.
	A process may define policies, standards, guidelines, activities and work instructions if they needed.

Process is
	measurable
	yields desired result
	delivers result to customers
	responds to specific events or requirements


staff
	The personnel who are assigned to carry out specified tasks or activities.

Roles
	A set of authorities, responsibilities and activites assigned to individual or personnel.
	
Metrics or KPI
	a measurement unit which imparts an ability to 'judge' the performance of a service.

Process Owner
	an individual or a team which is responsible towards
		documenting and publicizing the process
		defining the KPI
		Reviewing the KPI
		Improving the effectiveness and efficiency of the process.
		Provide the input Service Improvement Plan
		

Function
	A group of people & their tools to carry out one or more processes or activities.
	
	Units of Organizations specialized to perform a certain type of work and responsible for specific outcomes.
	

Contract Types
	SLA (Service Level Agreement)		- Customer and Service Provider
	OLA (Operational Level Agreement)	- Internal Entities and Functions of an organization
	UC (Underpinning Contract)			- service provider and a third party vendor for a specific customer
	

SLA (Service Level Agreement)
	Agreement between Customer and Service Provider
	which defines all the aspects of service including the acceptable quality parameters on the delivered services, financial conditions and penalties.




Service Lifecycle Approach (Topics covered undear each phase)

Service Strategy
	Demand Management
		Market research
		Customer Requests for Proposal (RFP)
		Current Service Performance
		Sales + Marketing + Portfolio Manager
	Service Portfolio Management
		Decide what services to offer
	Financial Management
		higher profits or revenue?

Service Design
	Service Catalogue Management
		Discussions with customer
		agreed list of services
		Defined SLA's to work with
		It is a sub part of portfolio Management
		Helps in designing men power requirements
	Service Level Management
		set of people and systems that allow the organization to ensure that agreed quality of services are being met and that the necessary resources are being provided.
	Availability Management
		High Availability
		Reliability
		Resilience
		Recoverability
		Serviceability
	Capacity Management
		Right Capacity, Right Time, Right Cost
	Supplier Management
		Complete Relationship with the vendor	
			Montioring the performance
			Montioring contract and expiry
			Logging calls if required
			Contractual Dispute resolution
	Information Security mangaement
		to achieve CIA
			Confidentiality Policies
			Integrity
				make sure data is accurate and not corrupted
			Availability
				Making sure data is available when it is requested
	Service Continuity Mangement
		Overall Business Continutiy Mangement (BCM)
		Ensuring Required Infra and IT Services can be restored within agreed business time -scales.

Service Transition
	Service Asset & Configuration Management
		Asset Management
	Change Management
		Assessed, Approved, Implemented and Reviewed
	Release & Deployment Mangagement & Knowledge Management
		Roll out & Roll back informations
		Knowledge database
		
Service Operation
	Service Desk (Function)
	Incident Management
	Event Management
	Request Fulfilment
	Access Management
	Problem Management
		KEDB (Known  Error Database)
	Technical Management (Function)
	IT Operations Management (Function)
	Application Management (Function)

Continual Service Improvement (PDCA)
	7 Step Improvement Process
		1. Define what you should measure?
		2. Define what you can measure
		3. Gather the data (who, how, when, integrity)
		4. Process the data (Frequency, Format, System, Accuracy)
		5. Analyze the data (Relations, trends, according to plan, corrective actions)
		6. Present and use the informations	(assessment summary, action plans)
		7. Implement Corrective Actions
		
	
























